Chris: In eduation communication
is required by law
and what I mean to say
is that communication access is required
under the law in these settings
of employment and education.
Can you share your experiences
of communication access at work
or in a post-secondary setting?
Who would like to start
with that question?
[music plays]
Nathalie: I graduated from
Sacred Heart University
with a sociology degree
and at the school there was a
department for people with disabilities.
And when I was applying,
I didn't know what I needed.
I relied a lot on my vision
and on the FM system,
which is the microphone.
I just wanted to fit in
with the other students.
And that was basically what mattered
to me the most at that time.
And when I started college,
long story short,
they didn't know how to work with somebody
who was DeafBlind.
It was hard. It was difficult.
It took me a long time to read pages
and I couldn't finish all the lectures
and I was struggling in school.
As time goes on
I was like, you know what?
I think it's time for me
to change my habits of technology
and try something else.
So I started learning
using a screen reader on my computer
and over time it’s been very
helpful and I was able to navigate school.
It actually helped me
a lot more to get to work
more effectively in the workforce
And I love it.
Adriana: I made the decision to go back to college
because I wanted to change my life,
but I knew that
it would be a challenge for me.
I applied to the New York
Institute of Technology
with a major in social work.
We met with the disability
counselor at the college
to talk about what my needs would be.
It seems like we had
all the accommodations worked out.
I was excited and I was ready.
On my first day,
I walked into my first class
with my two interpreters,
and I will never forget the look
that that instructor gave me
when she saw me and my cane.
In fact, she asked why I was there.
I had to explain that I was her student.
She gave me such a look.
Class began and the interpreter started
interpreting and switching each other out.
Once again, she looked over.
She started yelling at us
to stop chatting.
The interpreter let her know
that we were simply interpreting,
explaining that I was DeafBlind and
getting the lecture through the interpreters.
I was embarrassed,
but I really had to bite my tongue.
It was a frustrating first day.
When I took my first exam
I did get extended time,
which was a relief.
The interpreter would read the questions
to me because I couldn't see the print,
and the instructor refused to make it
accessible using large print.
What a waste of my time.
I got through the exam
and the teacher emailed me later
saying that I got the top grade
on the exam and apologized
for ignoring my communication
and accommodation needs.
She couldn't believe that
I had gotten a 98% on the exam.
She was operating under the assumption
that DeafBlind meant dumb.
I asked not to have a repeat
of what happened that last semester.
She assured me that
it would not happen again
and apologized for all the screw ups.
It was so successful and
I was so much happier in that semester.
I didn't have any issues.
I no longer kept that to myself.
I was proud of what I could do.
I was a success.
Scott: When I went to college,
they didn't really know
what to do with me either.
Quite frankly, I didn't know what
to do with me either, in the beginning.
But what I learned was
that I had to figure it out.
Even though my hearing
was getting to the point that I could
no longer understand the books on tape,
I couldn’t understand them
and I told the Disability Services Office
that I couldn't use audiobooks anymore.
I had to have these things in a digital
format that I could read in braille.
They come back with, “well,
can you drop the class
you're in temporarily and then pick it up
so that we can get your books ready
in an accessible format
because we have to figure out
how to do it.” I said absolutely not.
No way.
I am not falling behind my peers.
I'm not going to sit here
for a longer duration of time
simply because you don't
know how to accommodate me.’
So I went and I scanned my own books
and turned them into the format I needed.
And it was a lot of extra time,
but that's what I had to do
Not only did
I understand that I was capable
of figuring things out
even without the support of others,
that it was okay
to put people in their place.
And I, you know,
I really learned a lot from that
and so many of the other experiences
that the world can't
always adapt to me, it's my situation.
I have to adapt to the world.
Chris: It wasn't until I began my first
master’s degree
where things became challenging.
For the first time, I was in an
all-hearing educational environment
where I was the only DeafBlind student.
My very first semester
during the class, the professor explained
a project that was going to be completed
regarding the diplomatic history
between the United States
and Latin America,
which was the title of the course.
The teacher required that we come up
after class and take 30 seconds
or so to share the country
and the event we would select.
and so finally it was my turn
and through the interpreter
I explained that I was going
to choose the Panama Canal.
After explaining my project,
the professor said, ‘please
write on the blackboard
what you've just said to me.’
So I asked the professor, ‘why would
I have to write it on the blackboard?’
His response was,
“I know that monkey language
can't be so sophisticated
as to be able to convey
the sophisticated concepts
that you actually said to me.”
I was in disbelief.
At the time I was about 22 years old
and I didn't know what to do next.
This course was my first class
and my first semester of graduate
school at a hearing university.
So I wrote it out on the blackboard,
at length.
And in reading what I wrote, his response
was to approve my project topic,
and he noted that I
could continue in the course.
I received an A in that course.
In fact, I received an
A-plus in that course.
And when I showed the professor
my grade in that course,
he was shocked to learn
that I received an A-plus.
In fact, he told me that I had gotten the
highest grade of anyone in that course.
His initial impression was to assume
that I wouldn't be able to do the work.
But of course, he was dead wrong
and quite apologetic in the end.
It taught him a lesson
about making a snap judgment.
[music ends]